Concept

We are thinking of building a 5C student focused, smart, cloud synced and cross platform multi purpose text editor. To further explain this idea, it is similar in concept to the Apple “notes” app that exists on iOS and MacOS. However, it should be clear that this is not just for keeping notes, and really is a general purpose text editor. 

We plan on using Flutter to create a local application that will exist across platforms as well as potentially as a web app. Further examination of what's possible with Dart and Flutter could result in using React + React native or another javascript cross platform application framework instead. Users can create a number of different pages to write whatever they like, as well as incorporate multimedia elements, such as photos, videos and audio clips. These pages will have a local copy that is stored on the disk of the device. 

In addition to this, a Java Spring REST API will exist to sync the pages to the cloud, allowing users to access their pages on any device signed in to their account. Additionally, this Java application will help facilitate collaborative pages that are shared between users who can simultaneously work on the pages at the same time. 

From a 5C perspective, we want to provide a general note database for each course that will be available to all 5C students currently enrolled in and also just interested in viewing the contents to help them make informed decisions whether they want to take this course or not. Compared with shared google drive, notion or other well-known text sharing software in the market, the barrier to use and contribute to the grand notes shared across is much lower but also secured as we required SSO logins for permission to access. But once logged in, it is also more convenient that rather than letting a student be the initiator to share the notes and gathering other students’ emails, our software would be the host and students can choose whether they want to share their note on the interface. It would also help students who don’t know their classmates and need to better understand what happens in lecture if they are absent.

To further extend the capabilities of the application,we are envisioning integrating it with a number of other tools. Firstly, calendar integration, allowing the application to parse the text written to automatically generate calendar events for the device’s chosen calendar application, be that google calendar, apple calendar, outlook, etc. Secondly, ChatGPT/LLM integration, allowing users to pass questions or commands to LLMs from the application directly.  

We believe that there is value in such an application due to the usefulness of having information be easily accessible across multiple devices. An obvious use case we envision for this is being able to quickly note down things that are being said. For example, students might be told at the end of a class what they need to do for the next class meeting. Writing them down in this application will allow them to access the information anywhere, quickly and easily, as well as very quickly turn these into calendar events with reminders. Essentially, anything you want to write down/store to remember can be easily kept here. This is something that just about anyone could find useful. 

We believe that with a group of 5 members, it is realistic to implement many of the aforementioned features and at the very least build out a fleshed out minimum viable product. At its core, a simple text editor is a relatively trivial project to make, challenges will come in some of the other features we plan to implement, such as the natural language processing needed to parse calendar events from plain text. 

I think this project will be fun because we are creating a product that we think would be useful for us developers.  Also, we are adding new features that are otherwise not present in most text editors, such as LLMs and cross-platform use of a local application, and it would be interesting to experiment with these features. 

I think this project would be fun because we are able to build a product that actually reaches people here at the 5Cs. It would be exciting to help build community to the 5Cs.

